Asthma exacerbations remain a significant global health issue despite advances in management. Fine particulate matter (PM2.5, particles ≤ 2.5 μm in diameter) is a known trigger for asthma exacerbations. However, studies on the acute effects of PM2.5, particularly in regions with relatively low pollution levels, are limited. This study examined the time-lagged association between daily PM2.5exposure and asthma exacerbations in Songkhla province, southern Thailand, where PM2.5concentrations frequently approach the World Health Organization's (WHO) Global Air Quality Guidelines. Approximately 41% of days during the study period had PM2.5concentrations below the 2021 Guideline level of 15 µg/m³. Additionally, the province is periodically affected by seasonal transboundary haze from forest fires.
A case-crossover study was conducted using daily PM2.5and meteorological data from January 2010 to December 2023, alongside health records of asthma patients from Songklanagarind Hospital. District-level daily PM2.5concentrations were estimated through inverse distance weighted interpolation. Conditional logistic regression, incorporating time-lagged models and cubic splines, was applied.
The study included 11,848 case days and 39,810 control days, with a mean daily PM2.5concentration of 18.2 µg/m³. PM2.5concentrations > 50 µg/m³ were significantly associated with asthma exacerbations at multiple time lags (lag0, lag2, and lag01 to lag03), with odds ratios ranging from 1.41 to 1.64, compared to the lowest concentration group (PM2.50-15 µg/m³). Temperature showed no significant effect, while relative humidity was positively associated with asthma exacerbations at lag3, lag06, and lag07. Subgroup analyses revealed associations between PM2.5exposure and asthma exacerbations at early lags for both males and females. Additionally, children aged 6-11 years and 12-17 years exhibited greater susceptibility to asthma exacerbations, particularly at PM2.5concentrations of 15-25 µg/m³.
This study underscores the short-term effects of PM2.5on asthma exacerbations, particularly during high-pollution episodes of transboundary haze in regions that generally experience low levels of air pollution. These findings emphasize the importance of achieving the WHO air quality targets to mitigate the health impacts from PM2.5.

Perflutren lipid microsphere suspension, sold under the brand name Definity®, is a microbubble ultrasound contrast agent. The microspheres contain octafluoropropane (C3F8) gas encapsulated by an outer lipid shell of phospholipids and a polyethylene glycol (PEG)ylated phospholipid. Anaphylaxis to perflutren lipid microsphere is very rare, with only one case report clearly attributing the reaction to the PEG excipient. We report a novel case of anaphylaxis likely caused by a non-PEGylated component of Definity®.
Our patient is a healthy 54-year-old female, who underwent an exercise stress transthoracic echocardiogram using Definity® as an enhancing agent. She experienced anaphylaxis within 15 min of injection. Symptoms resolved after she was treated with diphenhydramine and epinephrine, followed by a systemic corticosteroid and ondansetron in the Emergency Department. The patient underwent allergy testing at our clinic for Definity® and various PEG-containing substances. While all PEG products tested negative, she had positive intradermal tests to Definity®. She also had negative skin prick testing to PEG 8000 and passed an oral challenge to PEG 3350, thus ruling out PEG as the causative agent of anaphylaxis.
Our case report highlights a previously undocumented instance of anaphylaxis to Definity® not caused by PEG. We suspect the reaction to be an IgE-mediated response to a non-PEGylated component of Definity®. An alternative explanation for the reaction could be a complement activation-related pseudoallergy. This report provides critical information to physicians on the potential risks of using Definity® and contributes to growing research surrounding the profile of Definity®.

This study investigates the impact of obesity on impulse oscillometry (IOS) parameters in individuals with asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), other lung diseases, and non-respiratory conditions. With rising obesity rates, understanding its effects on respiratory health is increasingly essential. We aimed to evaluate IOS parameters as predictors of respiratory dysfunction across different BMI categories, offering insights into managing complex cases involving obesity and lung disease.
We retrospectively analyzed IOS data from 1,947 patients referred to a secondary care allergy and lung clinic. IOS parameters assessed included total and peripheral airway resistance (R5and R5-20), resonant frequency (Fres), and reactance area (AX), examined relative to BMI. The cohort included patients with asthma, COPD, other lung diseases, and controls. A weighted random forest model was used to assess the impact of IOS parameters on BMI prediction accuracy, adjusting for imbalances in BMI and disease groups.
Obesity significantly affected IOS parameters, with R5-20, AX, and Fres emerging as key markers across all diagnostic groups. Elevated R5-20, AXand Fres values in obese patients, regardless of lung disease status, indicated increased small airway resistance and dysfunction. These IOS features demonstrated high predictive value in BMI-related outcomes, suggesting they capture airway impairments tied to obesity beyond conventional respiratory diagnoses.
IOS parameters, particularly R5-20, AX, and Fres are sensitive to obesity-associated airway changes and may serve as valuable markers for identifying respiratory impairment in obese individuals with or without lung disease.

The objective of this study was to examine the associations of blood inflammatory phenotypes with acute pediatric asthma exacerbations during different seasons and the COVID-19 pandemic.
A retrospective study was conducted involving 32,160 pediatric asthma patients from January 2008 to December 2021. Asthma blood inflammatory phenotypes were categorized based on low (L) and high (H) eosinophils (E) and neutrophils (N) (LBE/HBE: ≥ 0.25 × 109/L and LBN/HBN: ≥ 5 × 109/L, respectively) and logistic regression was used to examine the odds ratio (OR) of outcome variables.
A 109/L increase of neutrophils and eosinophils was associated with a 1.015-fold (95% CI: 1.009-1.021) and a 1.057-fold increase in the OR (95% CI: 1.026-1.088) for asthma exacerbations of hospitalized pediatric asthma patients. An increase in HBE/LBN phenotype was associated with a respective 1.232-fold (95% CI: 1.081-1.404) and 1.248-fold (95% CI: 1.101-1.414) increase in the OR for asthma exacerbations of hospitalized pediatric asthma patients before the COVID-19 pandemic in the winter and autumn seasons. However, an increase of LBE/LBN phenotype was associated with a respective 0.873-fold (95% CI: 0.769-0.991), 0.872-fold (95% CI: 0.771-0.986), and 0.813-fold (95% CI: 0.709-0.932) decrease in the OR for asthma exacerbations in the winter, spring and summer seasons.
HBE/LBN phenotype had a higher risk of asthma exacerbations among hospitalized pediatric asthma patients in the winter and autumn, while LBE/LBN phenotype had a lower risk in the winter, spring, and summer.
Blood eosinophils and neutrophils have been indicated to have a potential influence on pediatric asthma development and severity. HBE/LBN phenotype was associated with increased asthma exacerbations among hospitalized pediatric asthma patients during winter and autumn. Eosinophil and neutrophil predominance exhibited a higher influence on pediatric asthma exacerbations.

Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) represents a significant public health concern. However, the relationship between MAFLD and different types of respiratory diseases is not yet fully understood. In UK Biobank prospective cohort, 11 types of respiratory diseases were identified according to the ICD-10 codes. Cox regression was used to determine the association between MASLD and respiratory disease risk. A total of 393,416 subjects with an average age of 56.6 years were included, MASLD patients account for 34.9%. After fully adjustment for confounding factors, 9 out of 11 respiratory diseases were significantly associated with MASLD, including influenza (hazard ratio (HR): 1.294), pneumonia (HR: 1.258), chronic lower respiratory diseases (HR: 1.297), asthma (HR: 1.222), lung diseases due to external agents (HR: 1.190), interstitial lung diseases (HR: 1.336), diseases of the pleura (HR: 1.175), pulmonary embolism (HR: 1.225), lung and bronchus cancer (HR: 1.212) and respiratory system death (HR: 1.108) (P < 0.05 for all). The risk of respiratory diseases increases with the severity of MASLD assessed by fibrosis score. The relationship between the MASLD phenotype and respiratory diseases is independent of polygenic risk scores and four related risk alleles. These findings emphasize the value of comprehensive prevention of respiratory diseases by targeting MASLD.

Enhanced recovery after cesarean delivery protocols include evidence-based interventions designed to improve patient experience, pregnancy, and neonatal outcomes while reducing healthcare-related costs. This is the first update of the Enhanced Recovery After Surgery Society guidelines for antenatal and preoperative care before cesarean delivery after the original publication in 2018.
Interventions were selected based on expert consensus using the Delphi method. An updated literature search was conducted in September 2024 using the Embase, PubMed, MEDLINE, EBSCO CINAHL (Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature), Scopus, and Web of Science databases. Targeted searches were performed by a medical librarian to identify relevant articles published since the 2018 Enhanced Recovery After Surgery Society guidelines publication, which evaluated each antenatal and preoperative enhanced recovery after cesarean delivery intervention, focusing on randomized clinical trials and large observational studies (≥800 patients) to maximize search feasibility and relevance. Following a review of the evidence, a consensus was reached regarding the quality of evidence and the strength of recommendation for each proposed intervention according to the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) system.
The 6 recommended enhanced recovery after cesarean delivery interventions are (1) antenatal pathway patient education for scheduled caesarean delivery (evidence low to very low, recommendation strong); (2) multidisciplinary medical and surgical staff education regarding enhanced recovery after cesarean delivery support, intervention implementation, and measurement (evidence low, recommendation strong); (3) optimization of the medical care for pregnant patients with comorbid conditions, such as anemia, obesity, hypertension, prepregnancy and gestational diabetes, smoking (tobacco, cannabis, vaping), congenital heart disease, epilepsy, autoimmune disease, and asthma (evidence moderate, recommendation strong); (4) abdominal skin preparation with chlorhexidine gluconate impregnated cloth (evening before scheduled cesarean delivery) (evidence moderate; recommendation weak); (5) the duration of preoperative fasting based on the content intake (evidence low, recommendation weak); (6) the use of a preoperative, nonparticulate carbohydrate drink (evidence low-moderate, recommendation strong).
The first 3 recommendations are for use in the antenatal period (10-38 weeks of gestation), which allow for the optimization of patient comorbidities, whereas the remaining 3 recommendations are for preoperative interventions (skin preparation, preoperative fasting directives, and preoperative carbohydrate supplementation). Educational tools for cesarean delivery with well-designed shared decision-making focus on comorbidity management should be developed. These management tasks are viewed as routine care; however, the measurable success and impact have clinical variance. The enhanced recovery after cesarean delivery goal for patients who are undergoing a scheduled caesarean delivery is to maximize the quality of the pregnant patient's recovery and the fetal-neonatal outcome.

To assess asthma control levels in pediatric patients under 12 years of age attending a tertiary hospital, utilizing the childhood asthma control test (C-ACT) and the test for respiratory and asthma control in kids (TRACK).
The study involved 384 children. Data were collected from December 2023 to July 2024 from outpatient clinics, Prince Sultan Military Medical City, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. A total of 2 tools, C-ACT and TRACK, were employed to measure asthma control.
The results showed that 51.2% of children under 5 years of age exhibited uncontrolled asthma. Among children aged 5-12, 34.5% showed uncontrolled. A statistically significant association was found between uncontrolled asthma and emergency room visits in both age groups (p<0.001), with 39.7% of younger children and 45.6% of older children with uncontrolled asthma seeking emergency care in the previous 4 weeks.
The result underscore the importance of regular asthma monitoring and the use of validated tools such as C-ACT and TRACK to improve asthma management and reduce emergency room visits.

To investigate the psychological stress and its association with bronchial asthma in Saudi Arabia, focusing on the mechanisms by which stress affects asthma.
This cross-sectional study included 733 adults with asthma aged ≥18 years and was carried out between October 2022 and May 2023 in Saudi Arabia. Data were obtained using an online questionnaire assessing asthma severity and stress levels.
Cronbach's alpha indicated that the reliability of the stress scale was 0.728 and the reliability of the asthma control tool was 0.819. Of the participants, 52% were women and 48% were men, with 48.7% aged 18-26 years. Asthma severity was classified as low (20.3%) or high (54.6%) and 85.4% of the respondents reported elevated stress levels. A statistically significant correlation was noted between asthma control and sterss (r= -0.22,p<0.05), indicating that higher stress levels hinder the management of asthma.
There is a strong association between psychological stress and exacerbation of bronchial asthma. Stress impacts immune responses, thereby contributing to the pathogenesis of asthma. Therefore, effective stress management is essential in improving the control of asthma and the alleviation of its symptoms.

The emergent field of Interventional Bronchoscopy provides an alternative approach for the diagnosis and management of a range of Respiratory conditions. Within malignant disease, robotic navigational bronchoscopy provides a stable platform to sample small and difficult to reach pulmonary nodules, whilst malignant central airway obstruction can be managed through transcopic stent insertion. A range of therapeutic modalities have been developed for benign disease, which provide alternatives to standard therapy, particularly in the context of endobronchial valves for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, and bronchial thermoplasty for Asthma, while transbronchial cryoexcision lung biopsy offers a non-surgical option for undiagnosed Interstitial Lung Disease. With a rich pipeline of technology being developed through robust clinical trial processes, the field of Interventional Bronchoscopy will continue to grow to become an invaluable asset, not only to the field of Respiratory Medicine, but to the General Physician.

Young men experiencing anxiety risk traversing traditional norms of masculinity, a tension that contributes to under-diagnosis - and, by extension, under-treatment. Within this context, young men frequently present to ambulance services with acute psychosomatic anxiety symptoms, implicating extensive, and resource exhaustive diagnostic tests to differentially diagnose and clinically manage potentially life-threatening conditions (i.e., myocardial infarction, dyspnoea, asthma, and stroke). This four-phase mixed-methods study developed and tested a coding framework to describe and interpret clusters within data from the Victorian arm of the Australian National Ambulance Surveillance System (NASS). Six hundred and ninety-four young men aged 15-25 years with an anxiety-related ambulance attendance in 2019 were analysed in the present analyses. Study findings revealed that the most common clinical characteristics in young men's anxiety presentations were psychosomatic symptoms, alcohol and drug use, and situational stressors. Three typologies for young men's anxiety presentations: 1) Psychosomatic-Anxiety, 2) Anxious-Substance Use and 3) Complex-Anxiety, were evident across severities. Findings highlight the need for tailored assessments to effectively triage young men experiencing anxiety and engage them with appropriate mental health services.

A comprehensive study of Boerhavia diffusa Linn., an important medicinal herb in India's Ayurvedic tradition known as Punarnava. The herb, which thrives in tropical and subtropical areas, has long been prized for its amazing medicinal powers. A literature search was conducted using PubMed, Web of Science, Google Scholar, Springer, and Elsevier with the search term "Boerhavia diffusa" phytochemical makeup comprises alkaloids, flavonoids, glycosides, phenolics, and saponins, all of which contribute to its various pharmacological properties. These chemicals have a variety of biological actions, including anti-inflammatory, anticancer, hepatoprotective, antidiabetic, and antibacterial effects. Boerhavia diffusa has long been used to treat illnesses such as liver disease, arthritis, asthma, and kidney problems. The paper goes into the pharmacokinetic problems of Boerhavia diffusa's bioactive chemicals, including their low bioavailability. It demonstrates the growing interest in using green nanotechnology to improve the transport and efficacy of these substances. Environmentally friendly nanocarriers are being created to transport Boerhavia diffusa chemicals more efficiently, especially in cancer therapies, wound healing, and antibacterial treatments. These nanocarriers improve targeted medication delivery, reduce toxicity, and increase bioavailability, resulting in a sustainable and friendly solution. Combining green nanotechnology with Boerhavia diffusa opens up new possibilities for modern medical applications, providing a more efficient, safe, and environmentally responsible solution. This review emphasizes Boerhavia diffusa's enormous potential as both a traditional medicine and a component of modern therapeutic breakthroughs, integrating millennia of Indigenous knowledge with cutting-edge scientific advances.

Adverse pregnancy outcomes (APOs) affect nearly 20% of pregnancies and pose significant health risks for mothers and fetuses. Identifying risk factors is crucial for developing prevention strategies.
This study examined the association between vitamin D status, measured by 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations, and APO risk, and whether this association varies by pregnancy timing and body mass index (BMI).
In this ancillary analysis of the Vitamin D Antenatal Asthma Reduction Trial, we used multivariable logistic regression models to examine the association between 25(OH)D concentrations in early (10-18 weeks) and late (32-38 weeks) pregnancy, and development of a composite APO outcome, including preeclampsia, gestational hypertension, gestational diabetes, intrauterine growth restriction, and preterm birth.
Among 816 participants in the intention-to-treat analysis, 283 composite APO events occurred. Vitamin D supplementation did not significantly reduce APO risk. Participants who developed APOs had lower baseline 25(OH)D concentrations than those who did not (mean ± SD: 21.72 ± 10.04 vs 23.47 ± 10.29 ng/mL; mean difference ± SE: 1.75 ± 0.78; p = 0.026). A significant interaction was observed between baseline 25(OH)D and BMI (interaction term OR 1.04; 95% CI: 1.00, 1.08; p = 0.041). Among participants with BMI <25 kg/m2(reference group), each unit increase in baseline 25(OH)D (ng/mL) was associated with 4% lower odds of developing an APO (OR 0.96; 95% CI: 0.93, 0.99; p = 0.013), while no association was observed among participants with BMI ≥25 kg/m2(OR 1.00; 95% CI: 0.98, 1.02; p = 0.83). Third-trimester 25(OH)D concentrations did not differ between participants with and without APOs.
While vitamin D supplementation did not reduce APO risk, higher early pregnancy 25(OH)D concentrations were associated with lower odds of APOs in participants with BMI <25 kg/m2. These findings highlight the potential importance of higher early pregnancy 25(OH)D concentrations, particularly among those with normal BMI, in reducing APO risk.
This study is an ancillary analysis from VDAART, which is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00902621: https://clinicaltrials.gov/study/NCT00920621?term=vdaart&rank=1).

Asthma is a commonly occurring condition due to chronic inflammation of the lower respiratory tract. This study aims to assess the global burden of asthma from 1990 to 2021 and the mortality trends caused by specific risk factors.
Systematic analysis based on the Global Burden of Disease Study 2021 and Mendelian Randomization studies.
Based on a global asthma scale spanning from 1990 to 2021, we performed a secondary analysis to explore the incidence, mortality, and disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), along with risk factors for asthma. Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were performed to verify the results.
In 2021, there were 41,555,628 incident cases of asthma worldwide. Cases of asthma decreased by 0.09 % (95 % uncertainty interval [UI]: 0.12,0.06) from 1990 to 2021. Over the past three decades, asthma-associated deaths increased from 374,377 (95 % UI: 304,600-492,653) to 436,192 (95 % UI: 357,795-555,604). The global incidence rate decreased from 736.99 (95 % UI: 615.03-905.18) to 516.70 (95 % UI: 425.36-646.13) per 100,000 population; the asthma-associated mortality rate decreased from 9.64 (95 % UI: 7.76-12.80) to 5.20 (95 % UI: 4.27-6.59) per 100,000 population. Age-specific incidence and prevalence rates peaked in individuals under nine years old. The prevalence and incidence rates of asthma were relatively higher in individuals in countries with higher Socio-demographic Index (SDI); however, mortality and DALYs rates of individuals with asthma showed a reverse trend. Globally, occupational asthmagens, body mass index, smoking, and air pollution were key risk factors for asthma-associated mortality and DALYs in 2021. MR analyses further confirmed the strongly related correlation between body mass index, occupational asthmagens and asthma.
Although a mild decrease in total incidence cases of asthma was observed from 1990 to 2021, asthma has still continued to pose a life-threatening burden worldwide overall. Generally, asthma frequently occurred at younger ages and is more prevalent in high-SDI countries, indicating that specific periodic and regional features exist. Improved understanding of the epidemiology of asthma could facilitate future interventions to better manage the disease globally and support future investigation on the diagnosis and treatment of asthma.

Intra-breath oscillometry (IBOsc) is an emerging approach to characterize dynamic changes in respiratory mechanical impedance (Zrs). IBOsc utilizes a small-amplitude sinusoidal signal superimposed on quiet breathing to track Zrs with sufficient temporal resolution to find specific time points, such as end-expiration (eE) and end-inspiration (eI). IBOsc has demonstrated superiority to conventional multifrequency oscillometry in detecting abnormal respiratory function and predicting future impairment in several clinical settings. The aim of the present study was to construct intra-breath Zrs spectra from multifrequency recordings to demonstrate how the Zrs spectrum and its measures change during breathing.
Conventional oscillometric recordings from groups of healthy subjects and patients with interstitial lung disease, asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (N=40 each group) were analyzed. Zrs was computed at each component of the multifrequency (5-37-Hz) signal to establish the Zrs spectra at eE and eI. This multi-frequency tracking method was validated on simulated Zrs data generated by a non-linear model of respiratory mechanics. The 2-way median test and Wilcoxon signed rank test were used to compare Zrs values and derived measures between groups and respiratory phases, respectively.
Large intra-breath changes in Zrs were found in all subject groups. Most pairwise comparisons of Zrs measures (such as resistance, resonance frequency, reactance area and effective compliance) revealed significant (P<0.05) or highly significant (P<0.001) differences between groups at eE, which became more uniform at eI. Similarly, the changes between eE and eI were significant in most Zrs measures and subject groups, indicating the tidal improvement of lung mechanics in the obstructive patients.
Our results demonstrate that re-processing of archived datasets is feasible and can provide useful additional data to further characterize respiratory mechanical phenotypes. In particular, the estimation of Zrs spectra at zero respiratory flow minimizes the contribution of upper airway nonlinearities and thus improves the assessment of intrapulmonary dynamics. However, as this study points out, most current multifrequency signals are suboptimal for exploiting the potential of IBOsc due to low signal-to-noise ratio and interaction between adjacent frequency components.

Phellodendri cortex (PC), the dried trunk bark ofPhellodendron amurenseRUPR, has traditionally been used to treat patients who suffer from gastroenteritis, abdominal pain or diarrhea. Its major bioactive compounds include alkaloids and limonin, and many physiological activities including anti-microbial, anti-ulcer and anti-cancer as well as anti-inflammation have been reported. Although PC is an effective anti-inflammatory natural substance that inhibits the inflammatory response, its effect on allergic asthma has not yet been investigated. The aim of this study was to evaluate the anti-asthmatic effects of PC in an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced murine model of asthma. As a result, PC inhibited airway eosinophil accumulation, the influx of inflammatory cells, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), production of Th2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and/or lung, as well as OVA-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) in the serum. Furthermore, PC suppressed the gene expression of IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, TARC and CCR3, and attenuated unique histological changes that are associated with airway inflammatory reactions including the infiltration of various inflammatory cells, collagen deposition and goblet cell hyperplasia in lung tissues. These results indicate that PC may have preventive and/or therapeutic effects for allergic asthma via the inhibition of cytokines, chemokines and chemokine receptors associated with allergic inflammation.

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and asthma are connected through similar epidemiology, clinical symptoms, pathophysiological features, and risk factors. However, the shared genetic basis of these conditions remains poorly understood. This study sought to identify risk genes that contribute to both OSA and asthma and to explore their associated biological pathways.
This study was conducted using an in silico approach based on publicly available Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) data. Gene sets associated with OSA (2,159 genes) and asthma (786 genes) were manually curated from GWAS results. These lists were subsequently compared to identify intersecting genes, and their statistical significance was assessed using Fisher's Exact Test. Pathway enrichment analysis was conducted utilizing the Benjamini-Hochberg test with a significance threshold set at an adjusted p-value < 0.05.
A total of 187 genes overlapped between OSA and asthma, indicating a significantly higher occurrence than expected by chance. The pathway overrepresentation analysis of these intersecting genes identified processes associated with immune system functions, encompassing human leucocyte antigen (HLA), antigen presentation, cell differentiation, cell signaling, and positive regulation of inflammatory mediators.
This study unveils shared genetic mechanisms associated with OSA and asthma risks, highlighting intricate interactions within pathways governing immune response and inflammation. These findings provide a preliminary step toward understanding the genetic basis of this association; however, their clinical significance remains to be established. Further functional studies and validation in independent cohorts are needed to determine their potential relevance for biomarker development and immune-targeted therapeutic strategies.

Asthma and atherosclerosis are chronic conditions with distinct pathophysiologies, but overlapping inflammatory mechanisms that suggest a potential common regulatory framework. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), small non-coding RNA molecules that modulate gene expression post-transcriptionally, could be key players in linking these disorders. This review outlines how miRNAs contribute to the complex interplay between asthma and atherosclerosis, focusing on key miRNAs involved in inflammatory pathways, immune cell regulation and vascular remodeling. We discuss specific miRNAs, such as miR-155, miR-21 and miR-146a, which have been shown to modulate inflammatory cytokine production and T cell differentiation, impacting respiratory and cardiovascular health. The common miRNAs found in both asthma and atherosclerosis emphasize their role as potential biomarkers, but also as therapeutic targets. Understanding these molecular connections may unlock novel approaches for innovative, integrated treatment strategies that address both conditions and may significantly improve patient outcomes. Further research is needed to explore mechanistic pathways and validate the translational potential of miRNA-based interventions in preclinical and clinical settings.

Intravenous iodinated contrast media (ICM) is widely used in the United States, and it is imperative to provide guidance on the management of adverse reactions to ICM as well as the preparation, planning, and potential premedication for patients with previous reactions. Currently there is a discordance between the American College of Radiology Contrast Manual, which recommends premedication to prevent repeat hypersensitivity reactions to ICM, and the Anaphylaxis 2020 Practice Parameters Update, which recommends against routine administration of glucocorticoids and/or antihistamines to prevent anaphylaxis with prior ICM hypersensitivity reactions. A task force of experts from radiology who are also members of the American College of Radiology Committee on Drugs and Contrast Media and expert allergists/immunologists including members of the Adverse Reactions to Drugs, Biologics and Latex Committee of American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology evaluated the scientific evidence to develop consensus recommendations that are endorsed by both organizations. The task force took into account the strength of evidence and balanced the potential risks of recurrent reactions with those of premedication and product avoidance when making these recommendations to improve and standardize the care of patients who experience or have a history of reaction to ICM.

Asthma, a chronic airway disease, is marked by allergic inflammation, hyperresponsiveness, and tissue remodeling. Influenza infections in asthma patients can cause severe exacerbations, though the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study investigated how pre-existing allergic inflammation affects immune responses to influenza infection in mice exposed to house dust mite (HDM). Mice were repeatedly exposed to HDM, followed by infection with the influenza A virus, and were sacrificed three days post-infection. Plasma was analyzed for HDM-specific immunoglobulins, while lung tissue was used for immune cell flow cytometry and RNA sequencing analysis. HDM exposure induced allergic inflammation, evidenced by more HDM-specific IgE, IgG1, IgG2, eosinophils, neutrophils, Th1, and Th17 cells compared to controls. Upon influenza infection, the effects of HDM and influenza co-infection interacted, showing fewer Th1 cells and regulatory T cells and more Th2 cells compared to mice exposed to the influenza virus alone. Interestingly, RNA-seq analysis revealed less upregulation of Th1-related genes and antiviral pathways in co-exposed mice, suggesting impaired Th1 immunity and antiviral responses. Pre-existing allergic inflammation significantly altered immune responses in mice co-infected with influenza, revealing underdeveloped antiviral responses as early as three days post-infection. These findings may explain the increased susceptibility of patients with asthma to severe viral diseases.

Epidemiological studies indicate that erosive tooth wear (ETW) is a common threat of tooth surface loss. The etiology of ETW is multifactorial. The prevalence of asthma is increasing in developed countries, especially in children. Studies evaluating ETW in asthmatic children are conflicting. With our study, we aimed to investigate the association between general and asthmatic factors and the presence of ETW.
Population of this cross-sectional observational study consisted of children aged 6-17 years under treatment for asthma at University Medical Centre. ETW was determined using the Basic Erosive Wear Examination index. Questionnaires completed by parents and data from patients' medical records provided information on demographics, medical history, medication use, dietary habits, oral hygiene, fluoride exposure and type, dose, frequency, duration, and mode of asthma medication use.
379 asthmatic children participated in the study. The prevalence of ETW was 17.2% (n = 379). The mean total BEWE score was 0.76 ± 2.12. A statistically significant higher presence of ETW and higher total BEWE index were found in the group consuming acidic sports drinks (OR = 3.318), in the group aged 12-17 years (OR = 6.233), in the group using asthma medication for more than 3 years (OR = 3.379) and in the group using medication in the dry powder inhaled form (OR = 2.447).
Asthmatic children should avoid drinking acidic drinks since longer duration of asthma medication use is already associating them with higher ETW presence. From the ETW point of view, metered-dose inhaled medications are more tooth-friendly than dry powder inhaled forms.

