The global shortage of trained mental health workers disproportionately impacts mental health care access in low- and middle-income countries. In Kenya, effective strategies are needed to scale-up the workforce to meet the demand for depression and post-traumatic stress disorder treatment. Task-shifting - delegating specific tasks to non-specialist workers - is one workforce expansion approach. However, non-specialist workers remain underutilized in Kenya due to a paucity of research on how to scale-up and sustain such service models.
Purposive sampling was used to recruit experts from policy, healthcare practice, research, and mental health advocacy roles in Kenya (N = 30). Participants completed concept mapping activities to explore factors likely to facilitate or hinder a collaborative Ministry of Health-researcher training of the mental health non-specialist workforce. Participants brainstormed 71 statements describing determinants and implementation strategies, sorted and rated the importance and changeability of each. Multidimensional scaling and hierarchical cluster analysis quantified relationships between statements. The Exploration, Preparation, Implementation, and Sustainment (EPIS) framework guided cluster interpretation activities.
Twelve determinant clusters were identified: 1) Current workforce characteristics, 2) Exploration considerations, 3) Preparation considerations, 4) Sustainment considerations, 5) Inner context implementation processes and tools, 6) Local capacity and partnerships, 7) Financing for community health teams, 8) Outer context resource allocation/policy into action, 9) Workforce characteristics to enhance during implementation, 10) Workforce implementation strategies, 11) Cross-level workforce strategies, and 12) Training and education recommendations. Cluster 8 was rated the most important and changeable.
Concept mapping offers a rapid, community-engaged approach for identifying determinants and implementation strategies to address workforce shortages. Organizing results by EPIS phases can help prioritize strategy deployment to achieve implementation goals. Scale-up and sustainment of the non-specialist workforce in Kenya requires formal partnerships between the Ministry of Health and community health worker teams to distribute financial resources and collaboratively standardize training curriculum.

The relationship between maladaptive personality traits and other mental disorders, such as depression, has been underexplored, especially in medical students. Moreover, the prevalence of depression among medical students is greater than that among the general population, increasing their susceptibility to associated psychopathologies. Consequently, this study aims to investigate the relationship between depression and maladaptive personality trait domains on the basis of Criterion B of the DSM-5 Alternative Model for Personality Disorders (DSM-5 AMPD) among medical students while also highlighting relevant sociodemographic factors.
A cross-sectional study was conducted from May to September 2024, with participants surveyed through an online questionnaire. The questionnaire included three sections: sociodemographic characteristics, assessment of depression via the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), and maladaptive personality traits via the Personality Inventory for DSM-5-Brief Form (PID-5-BF). Statistical analysis was conducted in R via various packages for data cleaning, analysis, and visualization, employing descriptive statistics, regression models, correlation analysis, and reliability tests.
A total of 2,203 students participated in this study, with a marginal female dominance of 1,230 (55.8%). The mean (SD) overall maladaptive trait score was 1.11 (0.54), and that for the PHQ-9 was 11.7 (6.0). Statistical analysis revealed that higher depression scores were more strongly associated with females than with males, whereas maladaptive trait scores revealed no significant sex differences. The linear regression model for maladaptive trait domains revealed a significant association between total PHQ-9 scores and overall personality trait scores (B = 0.05 [0.05, 0.06]; β = 0.61 [0.58, 0.64]; p < 0.001). Similarly, another regression model confirmed this association, with overall personality trait scores being statistically significant (B = 7.0 [6.6, 7.3]; β = 0.62 [0.59, 0.65]; p < 0.001)".
Our findings revealed a significant correlation between maladaptive personality traits and depression in medical students. Moreover, the strong correlation between depression and negative affect suggests that negative affect may be closely linked to depressive symptoms. Further research is needed to understand the relationship between maladaptive trait domains and depression and how that relationship affects vulnerable groups such as medical students.

Dietary fiber (DF) is beneficial for preventing constipation, and the metabolites produced by gut microbiota fermentation are suggested to positively influence on depression and sleep. Additionally, constipation has been reported to affect mental health and health-related quality of life (HRQoL). This study aimed to increase DF intake and examined its effects on daily DF and β-G consumption using two types of waxy barley (WB), rich in DF with varying β-glucan (β-G) content. Additionally, this study examined the effects of WB consumption on defecation, sleep, mental health, and HRQoL.
A randomized double-blind parallel-group comparison study was conducted on 68 young Japanese women, using Kirarimochi (Group K) as common WB cultivar and Fukumi Fiber (Group F) as high-β-G WB cultivar. Participants consumed WB rice for 4 weeks, targeting 3 g/day of β-G (48 g/day of WB). We estimated the intake of WB and DF including β-G from the daily records. Defecation was evaluated through daily records and Rome IV criteria-based surveys. Sleep, mental health, and HRQoL were evaluated using PSQI-J, J-PHQ-9, and SF-36, respectively.
Both groups consumed about 40 g/day of WB. DF and β-G intakes from barley were 6.3 g/2.5 g in Group K and 10.7 g/4.3 g in Group F. Regarding defecation, both groups showed increases defecation days, defecation frequency and stool amount, with no differences between groups. Regarding sleep, Group F showed a decrease (improvement) in the PSQI global score, with improvements noted between groups. Regarding mental health, both groups showed decreases (improvements) in the PHQ-9 score, with Group F showing improvement between groups. Regarding HRQoL, summary scores showed improvements: physical health in Group K and mental health in Group F.
To increase β-G intake, high-β-G WB cultivars are effective; however, WB cultivars overall can potentially serve as excellent sources of DF. Effects on defecation may be expected not only from high-β-G WB but also from common WB with β-G intake below the target of 3 g/day. Although high β-G WB may have more beneficial for sleep and mental health, additional studies are required.

Health care workers (HCWs) face significant mental health challenges when delivering care and over the span of their careers. Despite growing recognition of these issues, barriers such as stigma, structural limitations, and individual obstacles continue to impede progress in supporting HCWs mental health needs. Digital mental health platforms continue to expand in health systems as they offer novel approaches to address these gaps, but more evidence is needed to understand their reception among HCWs.
To examine the perceptions of HCWs regarding their mental health, explore barriers and facilitators to accessing mental health care, and assess their experiences with digital mental health interventions within the context of the pandemic.
A qualitative study using semi-structured interviews with HCWs who participated in a prior randomized controlled trial (RCT) assessing the impact of a digital mental health platform on anxiety and depression.
A large, urban, academic health system.
A purposive sample of 64 HCWs, including physicians, nurses, technicians, administrative staff, and social workers, was recruited. Participants were selected from the upper and lower quartiles of anxiety and depression scores from the parent RCT to capture a range of mental health symptomatology.
The study aimed to identify HCWs' attitudes toward mental health care, barriers to utilizing professional resources, and their experiences with the digital mental health platform at the local institution. A thematic content analysis was used to analyze the interview data.
Five major themes were identified: (1) the evolving mental health challenges during and after the pandemic, (2) individual barriers to accessing care, such as personal coping strategies and familial responsibilities, (3) structural barriers like workload and limited access to mental health clinicians, (4) experiences with digital mental health interventions, including text message-based assessments, and (5) recommendations for future digital health strategies to improve access and reduce stigma.
Digital mental health interventions provide a promising avenue to support HCWs by reducing stigma and improving access to mental health resources and clinicians. However, personalized and system-level changes are necessary to address the ongoing mental health challenges faced by the workforce.

Recurrent aphthous ulcer (RAU) is the most prevalent oral mucosal disease, yet its etiology remains unclear. Anxiety and depression have been linked to the onset of RAU, but research findings were contradictory. The association of intestinal diseases with RAU implies a potential role of gut microbiota in the development of this condition. This study aims to explore the correlation between the presence and severity of RAU and psychological factors, as well as gut microbiota dysbiosis.
The Zung's self-rating anxiety scale (SAS), Zung's self-rating depression scale (SDS), and Pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI) were used to assess the participants' psychological status. The lactulose hydrogen-methane breath test was performed to detect the presence of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) in RAU patients. The long-term severity of RAU is quantified using the monthly number of ulcers. Compare the differences in outcomes between individuals with RAU and the healthy population, and explore the factors influencing the severity of RAU.
Forty-nine patients and 49 controls were included. The RAU group had significantly higher SAS scores (t = 2.18, p = 0.034), and SIBO positivity (χ2= 75.67, p < 0.001). Factors correlated with the monthly number of ulcers included SAS score (r = 0.52, p < 0.001), symptoms of anxiety (r = 0.42, p = 0.004), SDS score (r = 0.46, p = 0.002), PSQI score (r = 0.35, p = 0.020), and SIBO positivity (r = 0.42, p = 0.005). Multiple linear regression analyses indicated that anxiety and SIBO may influence the severity of RAU. Moreover, SAS score (r = 0.38, p = 0.010) and SDS score (r = 0.38, p = 0.009) exhibited correlations with SIBO.
RAU patients are at a higher risk of anxiety and gut microbiota dysbiosis, which could potentially escalate the severity of RAU. The role of the brain-gut axis in the pathogenesis of RAU warrants further exploration.

The 2023 Kahramanmaraş earthquakes resulted in extensive destruction, significant loss of life, and widespread displacement, with Hatay province being the most severely affected region. Earthquake survivors residing in temporary shelters face an elevated risk of long-term psychological consequences, particularly post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression. This study aims to assess the prevalence of PTSD and depression among earthquake survivors in temporary shelter areas within the central districts of Hatay and to identify associated risk factors contributing to PTSD.
This cross-sectional, population-based study was conducted among 400 adult earthquake survivors following the 2023 Kahramanmaraş earthquakes. Participants were selected using a multistage cluster sampling method. Data on participants' sociodemographic characteristics, earthquake experiences, and psychiatric history were collected through self-report questionnaires. PTSD was assessed using the PTSD Checklist for DSM-5 (PCL-5), while depression was evaluated using the Beck Depression Inventory.
PTSD was identified in 29.0% of participants, while depression was observed in 38.8%. Key risk factors for PTSD included unemployment (OR = 2.590, p = 0.004), the loss of a family member (OR = 2.351, p = 0.017), a pre-existing psychiatric diagnosis prior to the earthquakes (OR = 2.245, p = 0.007), alcohol use (OR = 2.310, p = 0.019), smoking (OR = 1.663, p = 0.044), and experiencing a high level of fear during the earthquakes (OR = 2.151, p = 0.002).
These findings highlight the critical need for large-scale psychosocial support and intervention programs in the post-disaster period. Identifying risk factors for PTSD may aid in the development of targeted treatment strategies and preventive interventions for affected individuals.

This commentary was inspired by an encounter M. M. experienced while shadowing a physician in 2024. The physician referred an otherwise healthy patient between 64 and 74 years old for a routine colonoscopy due to relevant risk factors. However, instead of the anticipated report, they received a letter from the specialist stating their refusal to complete the procedure. The reason cited for refusal: medical assistance in dying (MAiD). In the meeting with the specialist, the patient mentioned that they were considering pursuing MAiD for depression in 2026 - a choice that, notably, would not be available for solely mental health conditions until March 17, 2027.
Here, we consider multiple angles centred around how we should treat MAiD, particularly when it intersects with decisions related to life expectancy. Policy reform is necessary to address this potential form of discrimination across all subspecialties in medicine, advocating instead for collaborative, case-by-case decision-making between physicians and patients to discuss their goals of care and risks. To this end, we propose a four-pronged approach, including guidelines, medical ethics training, patient-targeted education, and further research.

Evaluating health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in the general population is essential for establishing benchmarks for health outcome assessments. This study aimed to generate population norms for the EQ-5D-5L dimensions, EQ-VAS (EuroQol-Visual Analogue Scale) scores, and EQ-5D-5L index scores in Iran, stratified by sex and age.
Data for this cross-sectional study were gathered through face-to-face interviews with 3,518 adults from the general population across nine provinces in Iran, employing a multistage sampling approach. Respondents assessed their own health state across the EQ-5D-5L dimensions-mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression-along with the EQ-VAS to evaluate their overall health. The EQ-5D-5L score was calculated using the value set derived from the Iranian general population. Dimension scores and index values (EQ-5D-5L index and EQ-VAS score) were analyzed using multiple logistic regression and generalized linear model (GLM), respectively.
The estimated mean ± standard deviation [SD] of EQ-5D-5L index for the general population of Iran was 0.789 ± 0.258, while the EQ-VAS score was estimated at 74.34 ± 18.67. Among the study participants, 35.8% reported being in the best health state (11111), while the remaining 64.2% experienced problems in at least one of the five dimensions. The most commonly reported problems were related to anxiety/depression (49.2%), followed by pain/discomfort (45.3%). Regression analyses revealed that females reported significantly more problems across the five dimensions of the EQ-5D-5L and had lower EQ-5D-5L index and EQ-VAS scores compared to males. Anxiety/depression were more prevalent among younger individuals, while problems in other dimensions tended to increase with age.
The findings indicate that nearly two-thirds of respondents experienced problems in at least one dimension, with anxiety/depression being the most prevalent, particularly among younger individuals. Females reported lower utility scores and more problems across all dimensions in all age groups. To effectively improve the health status of the Iranian population and ensure optimal resource allocation, it is vital to develop and implement targeted interventions that specifically address the needs highlighted in this study.

Little is known about the mental health consequences of large-scale industrial fires without fatalities but with persistent odors for several months. One such fire occurred in 2019 in Rouen, France. This survey aimed to assess the impact of the fire on the mental health of the exposed population fifteen months later.
A random representative stratified sample was selected from the exposed population in Rouen and a non-exposed population in a nearby city. Three probable mental health disorders were assessed with self-administered psychometric scales: PCL-5 for probable post-traumatic stress disorder, GAD-7 for probable generalized anxiety, and PHQ-9 for probable depression. Different types of exposure were self-reported: perceived odors, black smoke, visual or auditory fire perception, soot deposits, or fibrocement roof debris. The prevalence of probable mental health disorders and the associated factors were examined.
A total of 1,968 people participated (overall response rate of 20%). In the exposed area, 6% (5-7%) of people presented probable post-traumatic stress disorder attributable to the fire, 15% (13-17%) probable generalized anxiety, and 18% (16-20%) probable depression. The prevalence of all three was significantly higher in participants living close to the fire. Probable post-traumatic stress disorder and probable generalized anxiety were both associated with auditory perception of the fire or explosions. Probable generalized anxiety was also associated with the duration of exposure to unpleasant odors. Probable depression was associated with the duration of exposure to odors, and the presence of fibrocement roof debris.
Even though there were no fatalities and no injured people, the industrial fire had a mental health impact on people living in the exposed area in the medium term. The results of this work were used to implement further adequate medico-psychological care for the exposed population.

The aim of this study was to investigate physiological differences in electrolytes and complete blood counts in adolescent patients with depression with and without psychotic symptoms. By comparing baseline data in adolescent patients, it will provide more comprehensive information for individualised diagnosis and treatment of depression.
Clinical baseline data of adolescent patients were collected, including information on gender, age, smoking history, and alcohol consumption history. In terms of electrolytes and complete blood counts, the differences between the two groups of patients were compared, and a predictive model was constructed by stepwise logistic regression, and its diagnostic value was evaluated by ROC.
Ca, WBC and NE were relevant factors for the development of psychotic symptoms in adolescents (Ca: OR = 21.95; WBC: OR = 1.16; NE: OR = 1.18). The three indicators and the constructed predictive model 1 performed poorly in the ROC curve in adolescent patients, with an AUC of 0.598.
Blood calcium plays an important role in adolescent depression with psychotic symptoms. And leukocytes, neutrophils in depression with psychotic symptoms as an indicator of inflammation suggestive indicators for treatment and mechanism studies.
This study was a cross-sectional study. The study population was Chinese adolescents and did not include adolescents from other regions.
Not applicable.

Seasonal disturbances were common in mood disorders patients. The global seasonality score (GSS), derived from the Seasonal Pattern Assessment Questionnaire (SPAQ), was widely used to assess seasonality and related symptoms. This study aimed to establish the structure of the Chinese version of SPAQ. We examined the stability of seasonal pattern assessment across four seasons when administering SPAQ. The prevalence of seasonal affective disorder was estimated using SPAQ criteria.
We recruited 596 mood disorder patients and 138 healthy controls (HC), with 121 patients and 37 HC followed up over four seasons. An exploratory factor analysis examined the GSS factor structure. We evaluated correlations between GSS symptom dimensions and "the degree of problems due to seasonal changes" and used intraclass correlation coefficient reliability (ICCR) to assess the consistency of symptom dimensions across seasons.
Approximately a quarter of mood disorder patients met the criteria for seasonal affective disorder. The Chinese SPAQ revealed a two-factor structure: psychological and food-related symptoms among patients. The GSS showed a significant correlation (r = 0.64) with the degree of problems due to seasonal changes in mood disorder patients, while energy level and sleep significantly correlated with GSS (r > 0.75) in HC. Reporting reliability (ICCR > 0.4) was acceptable for GSS and mood/energy levels in patients across seasons.
Seasonal variations were observed in reporting the symptom dimensions of the seasonal pattern assessment, while the GSS remained relatively stable in both mood disorder patients and HC. SPAQ is a useful tool for measuring seasonality, irrespective of the season of administration.

The purpose of this study was to explore caregiver burden and its influencing factors in cancer patients undergoing palliative PTBD from both caregiver and patient perspectives.
A cross-sectional study was conducted on caregiver-patient dyads who underwent palliative percutaneous transhepatic biliary drainage (PTBD) from January to December 2023 at a tertiary hospital in western China. The Zarit Caregiver Burden Interview (ZBI), the Chinese version of the Family Resilience Assessment Scale (FRAS), the Self-Perceived Burden Scale (SPBS), and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) were used to assess outcome variables. Sociodemographic data and PTBD-related characteristics were also collected. Multiple linear regression was conducted to identify the influencing factors of caregiver burden.
A total of 185 caregiver-patient dyads were included in this study. The participants had a mean age of 51.6 years, and 68.6% were female. The median ZBI score was 58.7, with 47.5% of caregivers experiencing severe burden. Caregivers' daily time spent on caregiving, anxiety (β = 1.20, p = 0.001), depression (β = 0.86, p = 0.009), and family resilience (β = -0.11, p = 0.016) were found to be influencing factors of caregiver burden. Additionally, patient age (β = 0.20, p < 0.001), female sex (β = 3.61, p = 0.010), having more than one tube (β = 4.22, p = 0.003), and the tube maintenance institution were identified as influencing factors of caregiver burden.
Caregivers of cancer patients undergoing palliative PTBD had a considerable burden, which was influenced by factors from both the caregiver and patient perspectives. It is imperative for healthcare providers to develop interventions that target the modifiable influencing factors identified to support these caregivers effectively.

Red blood cell distribution width (RDW)-to-albumin ratio (RAR) is a novel index. Its relationship with depression, a common and complex psychiatric disorder, remains unclear. This study utilized the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) database to investigate this relationship.
Multivariate logistic regression, restricted cubic spline (RCS) regression, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, and sensitivity analyses were used to examine the relationship between RAR and depression based on NHANES data from 2011-2018. The study also used subgroup analyses and interaction tests to explore whether the relationship was stable across populations.
RAR was positively associated with depression in 18,150 participants aged ≥ 20 years. In fully adjusted models, each one-unit increase in RAR was associated with a 22% increase in the likelihood of depression [1.22 (1.05, 1.41)]. Participants in the highest quartile of RAR had a 30% higher risk of depression than those in the lowest quartile of RAR [1.30 (1.04, 1.63)]. Subgroup analyses revealed that the association between RAR and depression was significantly stronger among men, alcohol-drinking and high-income groups.
Higher baseline RAR was associated with an increased risk of depression in US adults and was more informative than RDW, albumin, and hemoglobin-to-RDW ratio (HRR). Further large-scale prospective studies are needed to analyze the role of RAR in depression. These findings emphasize that RAR can be a simple, reliable and cost-effective predictor of depression in clinical practice.

It is unclear whether there is a association between the long-term depressive symptoms and chronic liver disease(CLD). The aim of present study was to investigate the relationship between the trajectories of depressive symptoms and CLD in middle-aged and older Chinese adults.
The study included data from 7351 Chinese individuals, which from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study (CHARLS). Latent Class Growth Model (LCGM) and Growth Mixture Model (GMM) identified five categories of depressive symptom trajectories from 2011 to 2015. Multiple logistic regression models were used to analyze the relationship between depressive symptom trajectories and CLD in 2015-2020.
We identified five distinct trajectories of depressive symptoms characterized by persistent low CES-D scores throughout follow-up (low-stable; 4621 cases [62.86%]); high starting CES-D scores but then declining (high-decreasing; 824 cases [11.21%]); persistent high CES-D scores during follow-up (high-stable; 508 cases [6.91%]); starting moderate CES-D scores but then increasing (moderate-increasing; 844 cases [11.48%]); and low starting CES-D scores that increased and then remitted through follow-up (remitting; 554 cases [7.54%]). A total of 420 (5.71%) participants developed chronic liver disease during follow-up. The ORs (95% CI) for the risk of developing chronic liver disease in participants on the moderate-increasing trajectory, high-decreasing trajectory, and high-stable trajectory were 1.44 (1.05-1.93), 1.59 (1.17-2.12), and 2.25 (1.62-3.08), respectively, compared with participants on the low-stable trajectory.
In Chinese middle-aged and older adults, individuals with moderate-increasing, high-decreasing, and high-stable trajectories of depressive symptoms over time had an increased risk of developing CLD.

Adults living with and beyond cancer (survivors) often face physical and psychological challenges, including pain, fatigue, sleep disturbances, and depression, which impair quality of life (QOL). While exercise interventions are demonstrated to benefit survivors of solid tumors, their impact on survivors of blood cancer remains underexplored. This review evaluates the evidence regarding exercise interventions in survivors of blood cancer, focusing on intervention types, study participant characteristics, and reported outcomes.
A literature search was conducted using Embase (Elsevier), Medline (EBSCO), CINAHL (EBSCO), and Scopus (Elsevier) to identify studies on exercise interventions in survivors of blood cancer published through March 15, 2024. Articles were screened based on inclusion criteria, including adults aged 18 or older who completed cancer treatment and underwent exercise interventions. Exclusion criteria included pediatric populations, active cancer treatment, study protocols, incomplete results, or non-English publications.
Seventeen studies were identified, including nine feasibility studies and eight randomized controlled trials. Participants, predominantly white, had a median age range of 31.5-63.5 years. Interventions, often combining aerobic and resistance exercises, were delivered three times weekly over 8-12 weeks. Feasibility studies reported adherence rates of 66-87% and retention rates of 70-95%, with improvements in QOL and physical function. Randomized controlled trials similarly demonstrated benefits in fatigue, QOL, and physical function.  CONCLUSIONS: Exercise interventions improve QOL for survivors of blood cancer, though long-term effectiveness and adherence require further study.
Future research should focus on diverse populations and long-term outcomes to develop tailored, accessible exercise interventions for survivors of blood cancer.

This pre-registered (#CRD42024509947) systematic review synthesized evidence on cognitive behavioral interventions (CBTs) for youths with school attendance problems (SAPs). The PsycINFO, PubMed, ERIC, and Scopus databases were searched through 1985-2024 for randomized controlled trials (RCTs), non-RCTs, and open trials (OTs) evaluating SAP-focused CBT. Data were synthesized narratively and through meta-analysis. Four RCTs and eleven OTs met eligibility criteria, including 932 youths. Meta-analyses revealed small to large uncontrolled pre- to post-intervention effects for school attendance (g = 1.02), anxiety (g = - 0.57), depression (g = - 0.66), and behavioral problems (g = - 0.40), which were maintained at follow-up. When compared to a control, CBT had a medium effect on school attendance (g = 0.44) but non-significant effects on anxiety (g = - 0.09) and depression (g = - 0.14). While the results hold promise for SAP-focused CBTs, evidence was limited by study heterogeneity, bias risks, methodological limitations, and inconsistent outcome measures, highlighting the needed for further RCTs.

This paper examines depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and comorbid depression/PTSD among Black and Latinx young and emerging adults (YEA) living with HIV. We incorporated a social-ecological framework to examine risk factors associated with mental health conditions, comparing foreign and US-born groups.
We used a hybrid recruitment strategy and surveyed 271 Black and Latinx YEA (ages 19-28 years) living with HIV in the Eastern USA. We used multivariable logistic regressions and hypothesized certain individual, interpersonal, community/societal risk factors would be positively associated with depression, PTSD, and comorbid depression/PTSD.
Participants experienced elevated rates of depression (33.9%), PTSD (34.0%), and comorbid depression/PTSD (19.1%). Contrary to our hypothesis, US-born participants had significantly higher rates of mental health conditions compared to foreign-born participants. At the individual-level, foreign-born was associated with lower comorbid depression/PTSD [RRR 0.38 (95% CI 0.15, 0.97)], cisgender with lower comorbid depression/PTSD [RRR 0.42 (95% CI 0.18, 0.99)], greater number of Adverse Childhood Experiences with PTSD [OR 1.18 (95% CI 1.08, 1.29)], and comorbid depression/PTSD [RRR 1.28 (95% CI 1.12, 1.47)], while moderate/high substance use with depression [OR 2.30 (95% CI 1.01, 5.25)] and comorbid depression/PTSD [RRR 3.74 (95% CI 1.07, 13.03)]. At the interpersonal-level, lower social support was associated with higher depression [OR 0.99 (95% CI 0.97, 1.00)], PTSD [OR 0.98 (95% CI 0.97, 0.99)], and comorbid depression/PTSD [RRR 0.97 (95% CI 0.96, 0.99)]. At the community/societal-level, discrimination was associated with higher depression [OR 1.05 (95% CI 1.02, 1.08)] and comorbid depression/PTSD [RRR 1.07 (95% CI 1.02, 1.11)].
Understanding social-ecological risk factors associated with mental health conditions of Black and Latinx YEA living with HIV is important in determining potential avenues for targeted prevention and intervention to improve mental health.

Although distal (i.e., discrimination, victimization, rejection, and nonaffirmation) and proximal (i.e., internalized transphobia, negative expectations, and identity nondisclosure) gender minority stressors are associated with internalizing (i.e., depression, anxiety, suicidality) and externalizing (i.e., substance use) mental health outcomes of trans individuals, how they are related to two distinct types of outcomes differs. General psychological processes (i.e., hopelessness) could explain the mechanisms behind the minority stressors-mental health association. Accordingly, this study aimed to test the complete gender minority stress model and the direct and indirect effects of minority stressors via hopelessness on mental health outcomes in trans individuals. Data were collected online from a convenience sample of 205 trans adults (18-74 years; M = 29.49, SD = 10.24), 72 (35.1%) of whom were trans men, 52 (25.4%) were trans women, and 81 (39.5%) were non-binary individuals. Results from structural equation modeling showed that distal stressors directly predicted mental health outcomes, except for depression. Internalized transphobia and negative expectations had positive indirect effects on depression, anxiety, and past-year and lifetime suicidality via hopelessness. Identity nondisclosure had negative indirect effects on depression, anxiety, and past-year suicidality through hopelessness. For substance use, hopelessness was not a significant mediator. Still, identity nondisclosure mediated distal stressors-substance use link. Findings suggest that hopelessness is a significant contributor to internalizing symptoms of trans individuals, making it a target for interventions to improve the mental health of trans people. The ameliorative impact of identity nondisclosure on both types of mental health outcomes should be considered and examined in further studies.

Negative life events have been associated with the development of negative emotions, few studies have examined the chain mediating effect between negative life events and negative emotions among college students. The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between negative life events and negative emotions in college students, as well as the chain mediating roles of social phobia and insomnia. A total of 8050 college students in three colleges in Anhui Province were selected through stratified cluster sampling method. Baseline data were collected in 2021 and followed up 6 months later. Spearman correlation analysis was used to analyze the relationship between the two. Bootstrapping procedure was used to test for mediating effects. Spearman correlation analysis showed that negative life events were significantly positively correlated with social phobia, insomnia, stress, depression and anxiety (r = 0.388, 0.319, 0.448, 0.449, 0.441). Among college students, the mediating effects of social phobia between negative life events and stress, depression, anxiety were 35.36%, 36.81%, and 37.27%, respectively. Meanwhile, the mediating effects of insomnia between negative life events and stress, depression, anxiety were 10.50%, 9.82% and 9.94%, respectively. The chain mediating effects of social phobia and insomnia between negative life events and stress, depression, anxiety were 3.31%, 3.07%, and 3.11%, in college students, respectively. These results indicate that negative life events can indirectly predict negative emotions, not only through the single mediating effect of social phobia and insomnia but also through the chain mediating effect of social phobia and insomnia.

